## 关键单词
1. airport： 机场
2. Terminal 1:1号航站楼
3. Check in : 办理值机手续
4. Check in desk: 值机柜台
5. Ticket: 机票
6. Boarding pass: 登机牌
7. Boarding gate: 登记口
8. Customs： 海关/安检
9. passport: 护照
10. visa: 签证
11. luggage: 行李
12. baggage： 行李
13. bag
14. suitcase： 箱子
## 登机
1. Excuse me do you know where I can check in
2. Where are you travelling to today
3. Could I see your passport, please
4. Here is my passport/visa
5. Do you have any luggage to check in / carry on baggage
6. Can I take this bag on board
7. Do you have any window seats/ aisle seats
8. Can we sit together
9. Do you have seats together
10. What time do I need to board
11. Which boarding gate do I need to go to
12. Where is the security check/customs
13. Where is the duty free shop
## 飞机上
1. Excuse me, where is my seat
2. What time does this flight arrive in NewYork
3. How long before we arrive
4. Could you give me a blanket please
	1. a pillow
	2. a pair of slippers
	3. some earphones
	4. a cup of water
## 换汇
1. Excuse me, can I change money here.
2. What is the exchange rate
3. I would like to change Chinese yuan into US dollars
	1. Euros:欧元
	2. Pounds： 英镑
	3. Hong Kong dollars:港币
	4. Australian dollars:澳大利亚币
	5. Singapore dollars:新加坡币
4. Is there a service charge /any commission

## 退税
1. Where can I get a VAT refund/tax refund
2. Can I get tax refund on these goods
3. Here is the receipt/my passport
4. Could I get the refund in cash
## 取行李
1. Where can I pick up my luggage
2. Luggage claim area/baggage claim area:行李提取处
3. Excuse me, bag is missing
4. Here is my luggage tag
## 入关
1. How long will you be staying in the US
2. Where will you be staying
3. What is the purpose of your trip
4. It's a business trip/vacation
5. I'm here to see friends/study
6. Do you have anything to declear.