# 阅读1
## word
* rigorously
	* companies would rigorously assess their own hiring practices
* miserably
	* many fail miserably at this task
* by definition
	* by definition, companies know more about the abilities of their won workers than they do about those of outsiders
* Inevitably
	* Inevitably, this is time-consuming
* merry-go-round
	* the employment merry-go-round leads to an arms race, and thus higher costs
* a battery of
	* employment agencies offer a battery of tests
* strand
	* stranded on a desert island
## 错题·
Q: What does the author say about outside hires?
A: They are favored by employers
T: By definition, companies know more about the abilities of their own workers than they do about those of outsiders. But they still opt for the latter.
R: 错误理解latter含义。以为是“以后”， 实际为“后者”

---

# 阅读2
## word
* pupils & headset
	* 90% of women have pupils that are closer together than the typical headset's default setting
* bin & sexist
	* Amazon binned a hiring algorithm that was persistently sexist
* imperative
	* the ethical imperative is obvious
* clamp down
	* regulators can tackle that by clamping down on things that are dangerous to women
## 错题
Q： Why does the author suggest tech companies fix their design bias?
A: Designing products for everyone benefits everyone concerned
T: But there is also a powerful busines case for avoiding design bias, because huge opportunties are being missed.  .... Ensuring that products are designed for everyone would lead to happier and safer customers. For the companies that get it right, that menas higher profits.
R: 
	* 错误选项： Companies making female oriented products have reaped huge profits.
		* 该选项太片面

---

# 阅读3
## word
* proponent & chill
	* a new statistic could chill proponents of the liberal arts
* payday
	* liberal arts majors aren't suffering on payday nearly as much as many might assume
* grad & dipolma
	* STEM grads race ahead on salaries with diploma in hand
## 错题
Q: What do researchers at Havard University find about liberal arts grads?
A: They don't always earn trifling wages for an entire carer
R: 没有读懂answer句子